# Crop-yield-prediction-using-machine-learning

Agriculture is one of the major and the least paid occupation in India. Machine learning can bring a boom in the agriculture field by changing the income scenario through growing the optimum crop. This paper focuses on predicting the yield of the crop by applying various machine learning techniques. The outcome of these techniques is compared on the basis of mean absolute error. The prediction made by machine learning algorithms will help the farmers to decide which crop to grow to get the maximum yield by considering factors like temperature, rainfall, area, etc. India presence an agriculture country, its economy predominantly depends on agriculture yield growth and agro-industry products. Data Mining is an emerging research field in crop yield analysis. Yield prediction is a very important issue in agricultural. Any farmer is interested in knowing how much yield he is about to expect. Analyze the various related attributes like location, pH value from which alkalinity of the soil is determined. Along with it, percentage of nutrients like Nitrogen Phosphorous, and Potassium. Location is used along with the use of applications like RNN accuracy (Recurrent neural network) LSTM accuracy(Long short-term memory) and Feed forward accuracy for weather and temperature, type of soil, nutrient value of the soil in that region, amount of rainfall in the region, soil composition can be determined. All these attributes of data will be analyzed, train the data with various suitable machine learning algorithms for creating a model. The system comes with a model to be precise and accurate in predicting crop yield and deliver the end user with proper recommendation like crop which can be cultivated based on the atmosphere conditions.
